one one topic conversation leads into
another you were just talking it's
really two topics in one you were
talking about the feeling that you're
not making a difference through veganism
and you were also talking about people
meat eaters saying to you as an
accusation that you're not making it
those are desserts they're closely
related but they are two different
things one is the feeling oneself of
hopelessness that way and the other is
like you know your own father and
brother or relative as I saying to you
well why be vegan it won't make a
difference you know I was kind of I
guess under the delusion that you know I
was changing things or at least maybe an
impacting somebody you know people that
I know know that I'm vegan like at least
that's something but it's true that I'm
not actually doing anything so in the
past you wanted to become a medical
doctor yeah did your parents ever say to
you what's the point if you become a
medical doctor you won't change anything
but you won't no you won't because if
you don't become a medical doctor
someone else will get that seat someone
else will graduate from the same College
you're gonna compete for a seat in a
college
train become a medical doctor and if you
get it somebody else won't somebody else
will do that job just as well as you
maybe better you won't make a goddamn
bit a bit difference as a medical doctor
okay when I wanted to join the army I
think you've never thought about you're
in there maybe
maybe there's nothing you're not telling
me I think you've never you've never
signed up for there my dear I signed up
I signed the paper and everything I went
I want to get my gun but they said
you're too dangerous we can't let you
you know if you want to join the army
well your family said to you why you're
joining the army you can't make a
difference if you don't do that job
somebody else is gonna do it you seen
I'm saying with the logic of this see if
I don't join the army some other guy is
gonna hold that gun and pull that
trigger and fight in that battle or you
know whatever the role is fly that
airplane if you don't become a medical
doctor somebody else do that you can be
replaced in
examples here's the difference if you
don't become vegan who's gonna do it
I'm serious I'm sure cuz it's really
different if you don't take on this
challenge if you don't take on this role
if you don't become a voice for the
animals or a voice for ecology whether
you think of this ethically or
ecologically or in terms of health or
all of the above I think I think
basically all of the above are valid I
mean who's gonna do it
not not somebody else there isn't a
military recruiter there with 30 empty
seats in the airplane going to
Afghanistan where he's gonna get
somebody else to sit down instead of you
if you're not there to sit down if
you're not there to take that seat in
the airplane somebody else gonna sit
down if you're not there to take that
seat to a MedicAlert some of us can sit
down so right now I am paying an
illustrator to illustrate a children's
storybook that is basically vegan
propaganda you guys can check the
playlist in this channel we can he write
narrate the story book I wrote the story
you know it's beautiful story beautiful
stretch okay
okay if I don't do that who's gonna do
it if I didn't write that story nobody
else would have written that story I
know that may sound surreal but that's
both literally true like nobody else
could write that story from a creative
writing standpoint that I wrote you know
I mean and also it's just something
where you can't take that edge you can't
say well if I don't if I don't sign up
for the army someone else in the center
which is true the army is gonna just if
I don't volunteer for this mission
they're gonna pick someone else to go on
this mission you know that that's true
of many many workplace situations
medical doctor sniper a med right no
there's also a sense in which I can't
sit back and say somebody else who's
just as good at all an author as me is
gonna write some other book or some
other filmmakers gonna be said no and of
course also there's a you know if I
didn't pick this artist and pay this
artist and make this happen it's not
gonna happen now III would say in terms
of the their relations those houses and
their two issues here I don't think your
father would look at that story book
I've written and say this isn't going to
make a difference maybe you would some
people okay I mean some people would
something
what you know but just say you know I've
shown that to a lot of meat-eaters and
you know including it's written it's
written in both Chinese and English and
Haruki translated in Japanese and showed
it to her okie got a Russian translator
to everyone who's read that story book
responded to it some one person broke
down crying you know I mean has a big
impact on people
nobody said to me this isn't gonna make
a difference they've all said wow you
know now I don't know whatever story
book Curious George the cat and hat it's
just not our way of thinking about life
to say it doesn't make a difference I
mean I think all those story books in
their way make a difference Super Mario
Brothers makes a difference the cat that
makes them you know I mean there's a
sense in which these things culturally
make a difference and a large part of
our struggle is cultural a lot of the
difference between make is cultural
right but it's interesting because it's
very easy for me to say hey here's this
storybook that children are gonna read
and that vegan parents gonna read to
their kids and some meat eaters are
gonna read or it's gonna be in libraries
whatever okay it's actually very easy
for me to hold up that story book and
say I made a difference and it's very
hard for me to hold up a bullet and say
I fired this bullet in Afghanistan that
somebody else would have fired that
bullet man the bullet has no identity
the bullet has no creativity the bullet
has no cultural significance or weight
right yeah it doesn't in that sense you
can be replaced some with the bullet can
be replaced to somebody else could have
fired that bullet and yet we assume look
again I think your own father would
assume that if you go to Afghanistan and
start shooting people you're making a
difference in a sense you are and in a
sense you're not because there's another
guy with a shaved head probably a bunch
of tattoos I ain't God who can do who
can do just as good a job as I can at
that I can be replaced you can be
replaced where you can't be replaced is
in your cultural significance your
political significance your creative
work it's the creative aspect of of
activism what I'm going to call it
trying to change the world that's that's
really irreducibly individual and
replaceable
and I do feel that way I mean shout out
to all the people are waking up tomorrow
more
to wash dishes in the back of a vegan
restaurant there's obviously a role of
creativity and outreach in public
education and running a vegan restaurant
I always say they're the most underrated
vegan activists I don't again in Detroit
there's so much height for the few vegan
restaurants there but Detroit vegan soul
these couple of restaurants that aren't
aren't that great but you know no
offense but they've all been in the
newspaper and they've all had
celebrities visit they have this big
impact you know we just read this
newspaper article about one woman in
Canada who started making vegan cheese
and you know there's this big impact and
react and there is creativity you know
there is you know there is even art in
those food services and I think it's
hard for the people on the outside to
look at that and say you're not making a
difference but on the inside in terms of
how you feel I still think that is real
III can when I'm in front of my bathroom
mirror I'm not on an ego trip I don't
hold up that children's story book
examining it in terms of how I feel I'm
on the same page I don't think I'm
making we're wrong I feel that way too I
feel that with you I agree with you
that's how I feel but I'm wrong I've had
all these brilliant professors and
university PhD I've also edits but you
know it is you know but I've known
brilliant scholars and researchers and
authors and they can't get 500 people to
watch a YouTube video not in a day not
in a week not in a month not a year and
you know sure even this even reaching
out to people and doing this you know I
agree with you I don't feel like I'm
making difference that's why I'm not at
an ego trip about it I'm not out here
saying I'm the world's greatest vegan
activist but in reality it is making a
difference and you have personal stories
[Music]
yep but but pretty much that's that's
not really my point the point is if I
don't do this who will you see
yeah of course like as like I said in
the last video like you know I am
totally committed 100% to being vegan
but it is it is can be you know
disempowering or just you know
depressing like if you are standing on
the sidewalk with a clipboard asking for
donations for petaa people for the other
members you can be replaced you know
you're really making a difference when
you're irreplaceable as the author of
that story book even as the actor in
this video I'm irreplaceable and for all
would be aspiring activists that's what
I encourage you to seek out try to find
that place when you're replaceable and
then still even if you feel like you're
not making a difference examine it
objectively and know that you are a
badass Yin for me as a vegan it's easy
to be self-righteous
say shut it all down natural decay juice
settle the animals free that's easy put
the whole reason why my youtube channel
exists is that I'm not really interested
because the answers to complicated
question I'm interested you'll know the
murky complicated you know moral gray
areas
[Music]
ba Lu Ciel